Domain names are a key part of the Internet infrastructure. 
They provide a human-readable address for any web server available on the Internet.

Computers can handle such addresses easily, but people have a hard time finding out who is running the server or what service the website offers. 
IP addresses are hard to remember and might change over time.

TLD (Top-Level Domain):-
    TLDs tell users the general purpose of the service behind the domain name. 
    The most generic TLDs (.com, .org, .net) don't require web services to meet any particular criteria, 
    but some TLDs enforce stricter policies so it is clearer what their purpose is. For example:

    Local TLDs such as .us, .fr, or .se can require the service to be provided in a given language or hosted in a certain country — they are supposed to indicate a resource in a particular language or country.
    TLDs containing .gov are only allowed to be used by government departments.
    The .edu TLD is only for use by educational and academic institutions.
    TLDs can contain special as well as latin characters. A TLD's maximum length is 63 characters, although most are around 2–3.

Label (or component):-
    The labels are what follow the TLD. 
    A label is a case-insensitive character sequence anywhere from one to sixty-three characters in length, 
    containing only the letters A through Z, digits 0 through 9, and the '-' character (which may not be the first or last character in the label). 
    a, 97, and hello-strange-person-16-how-are-you are all examples of valid labels.

    The label located right before the TLD is also called a Secondary Level Domain (SLD).

Buying a domain name:-
    Who owns a domain name?
    You cannot "buy a domain name". This is so that unused domain names eventually become available to be used again by someone else. 
    If every domain name was bought, the web would quickly fill up with unused domain names that were locked and couldn't be used by anyone.

    Instead, you pay for the right to use a domain name for one or more years. 
    You can renew your right, and your renewal has priority over other people's applications. But you never own the domain name.

    Companies called registrars use domain name registries to keep track of technical and administrative information connecting you to your domain name.

DNS refreshing:-
    DNS databases are stored on every DNS server worldwide, and all these servers refer to a few special servers called "authoritative name servers" or "top-level DNS servers" 
    these are like the boss servers that manage the system.

    Whenever your registrar creates or updates any information for a given domain, the information must be refreshed in every DNS database. 
    Each DNS server that knows about a given domain stores the information for some time before it is automatically invalidated 
    and then refreshed (the DNS server queries an authoritative server and fetches the updated information from it). 
    Thus, it takes some time for DNS servers that know about this domain name to get the up-to-date information.

